---
layout: content
title: "Going remote in education? Don't panic."
tags: "education"
identifier: "gitlab"
contenttype: "news"
related_url: "https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2020/03/27/going-remote-education-virtual-learning-tips/"
image_url: "https://bixby-1d34.restdb.io/media/5e8bdcf198d98e0c00064401"
---
If you're an educator moving online, we have some tips for virtual learning success.

Campuses around the world in both K-12 and higher education are moving to virtual models of instruction and operation to help reduce the spread of COVID-19. As a result, many faculty, students, staff and leadership are now in the position of navigating how to work, teach, and learn remotely with little to no preparation time and even fewer resources.

Jumping into virtual education – voluntarily or otherwise – is not easy. Properly developing an online curriculum takes months and months of work, a coordinated tech stack, and a well-defined communication plan. Intentionally, online courses have IT staff to assist in the process of converting classes and generally only convert one at a time.

Are you an educator facing a suddenly digital classroom? Are you worried about answering endless emails from panicked students? Dreading spending hours upon hours recording lectures? Wondering how you will be able to effectively communicate with all your students?

As the world’s largest all-remote company with 1,200+ employees in 65 countries, GitLab has a wealth of resources to help navigate this challenge! The GitLab remote work emergency plan can be adapted to help both students and educators get up and running quickly and function effectively in this new reality.

We're excited to share a few immediately actionable tips for faculty, staff, and students who’ve been suddenly thrust out of the classroom and into a virtual education model. 

Follow the related content link.
